# Rx

## `IObservable<T>`

You should be able to think of anything that implements IObservable<T> as a streaming sequence of T objects.

So if a method returned an IObservable<Price> I could think of it as a stream of Prices.

When I refer to an instance of IObservable<T> as a stream, it does not exhibit the seek or write functionality that (`System.IO.Stream`) streams do.

 We will refer to instances of IObservable<T> as sequences. While instances of IEnumerable<T> are also sequences, we will adopt the convention that they are sequences of data at rest, and IObservable<T> instances are sequences of data in motion.

## `IObserver<T>`

```
//Provides a mechanism for receiving push-based notifications.
public interface IObserver<in T>
{
    //Provides the observer with new data.
    void OnNext(T value);
    //Notifies the observer that the provider has experienced an error condition.
    void OnError(Exception error);
    //Notifies the observer that the provider has finished sending push-based notifications.
    void OnCompleted();
}
```

if a sequence terminates, it is always terminated by an `OnError(Exception)`, or an `OnCompleted()`

This enables to concept of empty and infinite sequences.

## `Subject<T>`

`Subject<T>` type implementing both interfaces `IObserver<T>` and the `IObservable<T>`
There are three siblings to `Subject<T>`

## `ReplaySubject<T>`
`ReplaySubject<T>` provides the feature of caching values and then replaying them for any late subscriptions.

This can be very handy for eliminating race conditions.

`ReplaySubject<T>` will create an instance that caches every value published to it. In many scenarios this could create unnecessary memory pressure on the application. `ReplaySubject<T>` allows you to specify simple cache expiry settings that can alleviate this memory issue. 

## `BehaviorSubject<T>`

`BehaviorSubject<T>` is similar to `ReplaySubject<T>` except it only remembers the last publication.`BehaviorSubject<T>` also requires you to provide it a default value of T. This means that all subscribers will receive a value immediately (unless it is already completed).

That note that there is a difference between a ReplaySubject<T> with a buffer size of one (commonly called a 'replay one subject') and a BehaviorSubject<T>. A BehaviorSubject<T> requires an initial value.

## `AsyncSubject<T>`
`AsyncSubject<T>` is similar to the Replay and Behavior subjects in the way that it caches values, however it will only store the last value, and only publish it when the sequence is completed. The general usage of the AsyncSubject<T> is to only ever publish one value then immediately complete. This means that is becomes quite comparable to Task<T>.


## Implicit contracts
- once a sequence is completed, no more activity can happen on that sequence.
- A sequence can be completed in one of two ways, either by OnCompleted() or by OnError(Exception).

```
Here we see an attempt to publish the value 'c' on a completed sequence. Only values 'a' and 'b' are written to the console.

public void SubjectInvalidUsageExample()
{
var subject = new Subject<string>();
subject.Subscribe(Console.WriteLine);
subject.OnNext("a");
subject.OnNext("b");
subject.OnCompleted();
subject.OnNext("c");
}
```

## Subject factory



















